# Elevation Data

## Data Sources

### Earth Explorer
#### ASTER, SRTM, GTOPO30, GMTED2010 Data
https://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/

#### Bulk Download Tool
https://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/bulk/

#### How To Access Data With cURL And Wget
https://wiki.earthdata.nasa.gov/display/EL/How+To+Access+Data+With+cURL+And+Wget

### JAXA - Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency
#### ALOS Global Digital Surface Model "ALOS World 3D - 30m (AW3D30)"
The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) released "ALOS World 3D – 30m (AW3D30)", 
the global digital surface model (DSM) dataset with a horizontal resolution of approx. 
30-meter mesh (1×1 arcsecond), free of charge in May 2015.

https://www.eorc.jaxa.jp/ALOS/en/aw3d30/

### GEBCO
#### GEBCO 30 arc-second grid - 900m
The latest release of the GEBCO 30 arc-second global grid of elevations, GEBCO_2014 Grid, was published in 2014. 
It provides an update to the previous release, GEBCO_08 Grid.

It was largely generated by combining quality-controlled ship depth soundings with interpolation between sounding 
points guided by satellite-derived gravity data. Where they improve on the existing grid, data sets developed by 
other methods are included to create a continuous terrain model for ocean and land.

https://www.gebco.net/data_and_products/gridded_bathymetry_data/

### CGIAR-CSI
#### SRTM Digital Elevation Database v4.1 - 90m
https://cgiarcsi.community/data/srtm-90m-digital-elevation-database-v4-1/

### USGS:
#### NED
The __National Elevation Dataset (NED)__ is a raster product assembled by the U.S. Geological Survey. 
NED is designed to provide National elevation data in a seamless form with consistent datums, 
elevation unit, and coordinate reference system. The NED assembly process involves edge matching 
and mosaicking elevation data into NED layers. 

Seamless NED layers are available at the following resolutions: 

- one third arc-second (approximately 10 meters) resolution for the conterminous United States and portions of Alaska, 
- one arc-second (approximately 30 meters) for the conterminous United States, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, U.S. territorial islands, Mexico, and Canada, 
- and a resolution of two arc-second (approximately 60 meters) resolution is available for all of Alaska. 

In addition to seamless elevation layers, NED is also available at a one ninth arc-second (approximately 3 meters) resolution. 
The NED one ninth arc-second layer is not seamless. At this time the one ninth arc-second NED layer does covers only a portion 
the United States. 

No blending, edge matching or mosaicking is performed between projects. Individual projects are delivered to the original project boundary. NED data sources have a variety of elevation units, horizontal datums, and map projections. In the NED assembly process the elevation values are converted to a common coordinate reference system and units. Decimal meters are the units for elevation values, NAD83 is the horizontal datum, and all the data are recast in a geographic coordinate system. Older source DEM's produced by methods that are now obsolete have been filtered during the NED assembly process to minimize artifacts that are commonly found in data produced by these methods. Artifact removal greatly improves the quality of the slope, shaded-relief, and synthetic drainage information that can be derived from the elevation data. NED processing also includes steps to adjust values where adjacent DEM's do not match well, and to fill sliver areas of missing data between DEM's. These processing steps ensure that NED has no void areas and minimal artificial discontinuities. The artifact removal filtering process does not eliminate all of the artifacts. In areas where the only available DEM is produced by older methods, then "striping" may still occur. These original elevation files are currently available from the USGS at http://earthexplorer.usgs.gov. All NED products are distributed through The National Map.

#### NED 1 arc sec - 30m
[ftp://rockyftp.cr.usgs.gov/vdelivery/Datasets/Staged/NED/1/](ftp://rockyftp.cr.usgs.gov/vdelivery/Datasets/Staged/NED/1/)

#### NED 1/3 arc sec - 10m
[ftp://rockyftp.cr.usgs.gov/vdelivery/Datasets/Staged/NED/13/](ftp://rockyftp.cr.usgs.gov/vdelivery/Datasets/Staged/NED/13/)

#### NED 1/39arc sec - 3m
[ftp://rockyftp.cr.usgs.gov/vdelivery/Datasets/Staged/NED/19/](ftp://rockyftp.cr.usgs.gov/vdelivery/Datasets/Staged/NED/19/)

## Tools

### GDAL Conversion Scripts from USGS
https://viewer.nationalmap.gov/tools/rasterconversion/


